README.md, before:

# SNIPR Code Indexer

A semantic code indexing service that augments AI coding assistants with intelligent, contextually-relevant codebase information through Model Context Protocol (MCP) integration.

## Features

- **Semantic Code Parsing**: Tree-sitter integration for accurate AST-based code analysis
- **Vector Embeddings**: Advanced semantic search using sentence transformers
- **MCP Integration**: Direct integration with Claude Code and other AI assistants
- **Multi-Language Support**: Python, JavaScript, TypeScript, Go, Rust, Java
- **Incremental Indexing**: Efficient updates based on file change detection
- **Performance Optimized**: Quantized embeddings, batch processing, <200ms search latency

## Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd snipr

# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Install development dependencies (optional)
uv sync --extra dev
```

### Usage

#### 1. Start the MCP Server

```bash
uv run python -m src.main
```

#### 2. Configure Claude Code

Add to your Claude Code MCP configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "code-indexer": {
      "command": "uv",
      "args": ["run", "python", "-m", "src.main"],
      "cwd": "/path/to/snipr",
      "env": {
        "INDEX_CACHE_DIR": ".index_cache",
        "ENABLE_QUANTIZATION": "true"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### 3. Index Your Codebase

Use the `index_codebase_tool` in Claude Code:

```python
# Index entire codebase
await index_codebase("/path/to/your/project")

# Index specific languages
await index_codebase("/path/to/your/project", languages="python,javascript")

# Exclude patterns
await index_codebase("/path/to/your/project", exclude_patterns="**/node_modules/**,**/.git/**")
```

#### 4. Search Your Code

```python
# Semantic search
await search_code("authentication logic", language="python")

# Search by code type
await search_by_type("function_definition", language="python")

# Search within specific file
await search_in_file("/path/to/file.py", "error handling")

# Get indexing statistics
await get_search_stats()
```

## Architecture

### Core Components

- **IndexingService**: Tree-sitter parsing and code chunk extraction
- **SearchService**: Vector embeddings and semantic search
- **MCP Tools**: FastMCP-based tool implementations
- **Configuration**: Environment-based settings management

### Data Models

- **CodeChunk**: Represents indexed code segments with metadata
- **SearchRequest/Response**: API contracts for search operations
- **IndexingRequest/Response**: API contracts for indexing operations

### Supported Languages

| Language   | Extension | Tree-sitter Support |
|------------|-----------|-------------------|
| Python     | `.py`     | ✅ Full support   |
| JavaScript | `.js`     | ✅ Full support   |
| TypeScript | `.ts`     | 🔄 Auto-detected  |
| Go         | `.go`     | 🔄 Auto-detected  |
| Rust       | `.rs`     | 🔄 Auto-detected  |
| Java       | `.java`   | 🔄 Auto-detected  |

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Cache directory for index storage
INDEX_CACHE_DIR=".index_cache"

# Enable/disable embedding generation
EMBEDDING_ENABLED="true"

# Enable quantized embeddings (8x memory reduction)
ENABLE_QUANTIZATION="true"

# Maximum file size for indexing (MB)
MAX_FILE_SIZE_MB="5"

# Embedding model for semantic search
EMBEDDING_MODEL="all-MiniLM-L6-v2"

# Batch size for embedding generation
EMBEDDING_BATCH_SIZE="32"
```

### Performance Tuning

- **Quantization**: Reduces memory usage by 8x with minimal accuracy loss
- **Batch Processing**: Configurable batch sizes for optimal throughput
- **File Filtering**: Automatic exclusion of binary files and large files
- **Incremental Updates**: Only re-index changed files

## Development

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
uv run python -m pytest src/ -v

# Run with coverage
uv run python -m pytest src/ -v --cov=src --cov-report=term-missing

# Run specific test file
uv run python -m pytest src/services/tests/test_indexing_service.py -v
```

### Code Quality

```bash
# Lint code
uv run ruff check src/ --fix

# Type checking
uv run mypy src/

# Format code
uv run black src/
```

### Project Structure

```
src/
├── models/              # Pydantic data models
│   └── indexing_models.py
├── services/            # Core business logic
│   ├── indexing_service.py
│   └── search_service.py
├── tools/               # MCP tool implementations
│   ├── index_codebase.py
│   └── search_code.py
├── config.py           # Configuration management
└── main.py            # FastMCP server entry point
```

## MCP Tools Reference

### `index_codebase_tool`

Index a codebase for semantic search.

**Parameters:**
- `codebase_path` (string): Absolute path to codebase root
- `languages` (string, optional): Comma-separated languages to index
- `exclude_patterns` (string, optional): Comma-separated glob patterns to exclude

### `search_code_tool`

Search for semantically similar code chunks.

**Parameters:**
- `query` (string): Natural language or code query
- `language` (string, optional): Filter by programming language
- `max_results` (number): Maximum results (1-100)
- `similarity_threshold` (number): Minimum similarity score (0.0-1.0)

### `search_by_type_tool`

Search for specific code constructs (functions, classes, etc.).

**Parameters:**
- `semantic_type` (string): Code construct type
- `language` (string, optional): Filter by programming language
- `max_results` (number): Maximum results

### `search_in_file_tool`

Search within a specific file.

**Parameters:**
- `file_path` (string): Absolute path to file
- `query` (string): Search query
- `max_results` (number): Maximum results

### `get_indexing_status_tool`

Get current indexing status for a codebase.

**Parameters:**
- `codebase_path` (string): Absolute path to codebase root

### `clear_index_tool`

Clear all indexing data and start fresh.

### `get_search_stats_tool`

Get comprehensive indexing and search statistics.

## Performance Benchmarks

- **Search Latency**: <200ms for typical queries
- **Memory Usage**: 8x reduction with quantization enabled
- **Index Size**: ~5MB per 10k lines of code
- **Supported Files**: Up to 5MB per file (configurable)

## Troubleshooting

### Tree-sitter Issues

If you encounter Tree-sitter import errors:

```bash
# Install specific language parsers
uv add tree-sitter-python tree-sitter-javascript
```

### Memory Issues

Enable quantization for large codebases:

```bash
export ENABLE_QUANTIZATION="true"
```

### Performance Issues

Reduce batch size for lower memory usage:

```bash
export BATCH_SIZE="16"
```

## Requirements

- Python 3.11+
- uv package manager
- Tree-sitter language parsers
- sentence-transformers (optional, for semantic search)

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Run tests: `uv run python -m pytest src/ -v`
4. Submit a pull request

---

Built with ❤️ for AI-powered development workflows.

Commit message:

feat: Add CPU mode as default for better compatibility (#21)
* feat: Add CPU mode as default for better compatibility

- Added DEVICE configuration option to control CPU/CUDA usage
- Default to CPU mode for better compatibility across systems
- Updated embedding model initialization to respect DEVICE setting
- Added documentation for device configuration
- Updated MCP config to explicitly use CPU mode

This change ensures the tool works reliably on systems without CUDA
or with GPU compatibility issues, while still allowing GPU usage when
explicitly configured.

* fix: Remove trailing whitespace to pass linting checks

README.md, after:

# SNIPR Code Indexer

A semantic code indexing service that augments AI coding assistants with intelligent, contextually-relevant codebase information through Model Context Protocol (MCP) integration.

## Features

- **Semantic Code Parsing**: Tree-sitter integration for accurate AST-based code analysis
- **Vector Embeddings**: Advanced semantic search using sentence transformers
- **MCP Integration**: Direct integration with Claude Code and other AI assistants
- **Multi-Language Support**: Python, JavaScript, TypeScript, Go, Rust, Java
- **Incremental Indexing**: Efficient updates based on file change detection
- **Performance Optimized**: Quantized embeddings, batch processing, <200ms search latency

## Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd snipr

# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Install development dependencies (optional)
uv sync --extra dev
```

### Usage

#### 1. Start the MCP Server

```bash
uv run python -m src.main
```

#### 2. Configure Claude Code

Add to your Claude Code MCP configuration:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "code-indexer": {
      "command": "uv",
      "args": ["run", "python", "-m", "src.main"],
      "cwd": "/path/to/snipr",
      "env": {
        "INDEX_CACHE_DIR": ".index_cache",
        "ENABLE_QUANTIZATION": "true"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### 3. Index Your Codebase

Use the `index_codebase_tool` in Claude Code:

```python
# Index entire codebase
await index_codebase("/path/to/your/project")

# Index specific languages
await index_codebase("/path/to/your/project", languages="python,javascript")

# Exclude patterns
await index_codebase("/path/to/your/project", exclude_patterns="**/node_modules/**,**/.git/**")
```

#### 4. Search Your Code

```python
# Semantic search
await search_code("authentication logic", language="python")

# Search by code type
await search_by_type("function_definition", language="python")

# Search within specific file
await search_in_file("/path/to/file.py", "error handling")

# Get indexing statistics
await get_search_stats()
```

## Architecture

### Core Components

- **IndexingService**: Tree-sitter parsing and code chunk extraction
- **SearchService**: Vector embeddings and semantic search
- **MCP Tools**: FastMCP-based tool implementations
- **Configuration**: Environment-based settings management

### Data Models

- **CodeChunk**: Represents indexed code segments with metadata
- **SearchRequest/Response**: API contracts for search operations
- **IndexingRequest/Response**: API contracts for indexing operations

### Supported Languages

| Language   | Extension | Tree-sitter Support |
|------------|-----------|-------------------|
| Python     | `.py`     | ✅ Full support   |
| JavaScript | `.js`     | ✅ Full support   |
| TypeScript | `.ts`     | 🔄 Auto-detected  |
| Go         | `.go`     | 🔄 Auto-detected  |
| Rust       | `.rs`     | 🔄 Auto-detected  |
| Java       | `.java`   | 🔄 Auto-detected  |

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Cache directory for index storage
INDEX_CACHE_DIR=".index_cache"

# Enable/disable embedding generation
EMBEDDING_ENABLED="true"

# Enable quantized embeddings (8x memory reduction)
ENABLE_QUANTIZATION="true"

# Maximum file size for indexing (MB)
MAX_FILE_SIZE_MB="5"

# Embedding model for semantic search
EMBEDDING_MODEL="all-MiniLM-L6-v2"

# Batch size for embedding generation
EMBEDDING_BATCH_SIZE="32"

# Device for model inference (cpu or cuda)
# Default is cpu for better compatibility
DEVICE="cpu"
```

### Performance Tuning

- **Quantization**: Reduces memory usage by 8x with minimal accuracy loss
- **Batch Processing**: Configurable batch sizes for optimal throughput
- **File Filtering**: Automatic exclusion of binary files and large files
- **Incremental Updates**: Only re-index changed files

## Development

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
uv run python -m pytest src/ -v

# Run with coverage
uv run python -m pytest src/ -v --cov=src --cov-report=term-missing

# Run specific test file
uv run python -m pytest src/services/tests/test_indexing_service.py -v
```

### Code Quality

```bash
# Lint code
uv run ruff check src/ --fix

# Type checking
uv run mypy src/

# Format code
uv run black src/
```

### Project Structure

```
src/
├── models/              # Pydantic data models
│   └── indexing_models.py
├── services/            # Core business logic
│   ├── indexing_service.py
│   └── search_service.py
├── tools/               # MCP tool implementations
│   ├── index_codebase.py
│   └── search_code.py
├── config.py           # Configuration management
└── main.py            # FastMCP server entry point
```

## MCP Tools Reference

### `index_codebase_tool`

Index a codebase for semantic search.

**Parameters:**
- `codebase_path` (string): Absolute path to codebase root
- `languages` (string, optional): Comma-separated languages to index
- `exclude_patterns` (string, optional): Comma-separated glob patterns to exclude

### `search_code_tool`

Search for semantically similar code chunks.

**Parameters:**
- `query` (string): Natural language or code query
- `language` (string, optional): Filter by programming language
- `max_results` (number): Maximum results (1-100)
- `similarity_threshold` (number): Minimum similarity score (0.0-1.0)

### `search_by_type_tool`

Search for specific code constructs (functions, classes, etc.).

**Parameters:**
- `semantic_type` (string): Code construct type
- `language` (string, optional): Filter by programming language
- `max_results` (number): Maximum results

### `search_in_file_tool`

Search within a specific file.

**Parameters:**
- `file_path` (string): Absolute path to file
- `query` (string): Search query
- `max_results` (number): Maximum results

### `get_indexing_status_tool`

Get current indexing status for a codebase.

**Parameters:**
- `codebase_path` (string): Absolute path to codebase root

### `clear_index_tool`

Clear all indexing data and start fresh.

### `get_search_stats_tool`

Get comprehensive indexing and search statistics.

## Performance Benchmarks

- **Search Latency**: <200ms for typical queries
- **Memory Usage**: 8x reduction with quantization enabled
- **Index Size**: ~5MB per 10k lines of code
- **Supported Files**: Up to 5MB per file (configurable)

## Troubleshooting

### Tree-sitter Issues

If you encounter Tree-sitter import errors:

```bash
# Install specific language parsers
uv add tree-sitter-python tree-sitter-javascript
```

### Memory Issues

Enable quantization for large codebases:

```bash
export ENABLE_QUANTIZATION="true"
```

### Performance Issues

Reduce batch size for lower memory usage:

```bash
export BATCH_SIZE="16"
```

### GPU/CUDA Issues

The tool defaults to CPU mode for better compatibility. To use GPU:

```bash
export DEVICE="cuda"
```

To force CPU mode (default):

```bash
export DEVICE="cpu"
```

## Requirements

- Python 3.11+
- uv package manager
- Tree-sitter language parsers
- sentence-transformers (optional, for semantic search)

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Run tests: `uv run python -m pytest src/ -v`
4. Submit a pull request

---

Built with ❤️ for AI-powered development workflows.
